cloud: add terraform migrate cluster resource doc (#20659)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/terraform-migrate-cluster-resource.md

---
title: Migrate Cluster Resource to Serverless/Dedicated Cluster Resource
summary: Learn how to migrate cluster resource to serverless/dedicated cluster resource.
---

# Migrate Cluster Resource to Serverless/Dedicated Cluster Resource

> You will learn how to migrate cluster resource to serverless/dedicated cluster resource in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider 0.4.0, we add `tidbcloud_serverless_cluster` and `tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster` resources to replace `tidbcloud_cluster` resource. You will learn how to migrate `tidbcloud_cluster` resource to `tidbcloud_serverless_cluster`/`tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster` resource in this document.
```

## Prerequisites

> - [Update TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider at least 0.4.0]()

Reviewer: link?

## Step 1. Select the `tidbcloud_cluster` resource to migrate

Use the command below to get all resources.

```shell
terraform state list | grep "tidbcloud_cluster"
```

> Select the cluster resource to migrate and execute the command below to get the `id` for later use.

Reviewer 2: we need to clarify which id users needs. cluster_id or project_id or both,

```shell

> terraform state show tidbcloud_cluster.serverless_tier_cluster | grep ' id '

Reviewer 2: The doc below use `${your_target_cluster_resource}`, here we can also use `${your_target_cluster_resource}` to keep the consistency of the doc

```

## Step 2. Delete the existed resource from state

Run the `terraform state rm ${your_target_cluster_resource}` to delete the resource from state.

## Step 3. Delete the configuration of your target resource

Find the configuration of your target resource in tf file and delete the related code.

## Step 4. Create the configuration of your new serverless/dedicated cluster resource

Create the configuration of your new serverless/dedicated cluster resource like the `main.tf` file as below:
```
resource "tidbcloud_serverless_cluster" "new_cluster" {}  # Serverless

> resource "tidbcloud_serverless_cluster" "new_cluster" {}  # Dedicated

Reviewer 2: +1

```

## Step 5. Import the target cluster

Run the following command to import the resource, replacing ${id} with the previously recorded cluster ID:
```shell
terraform import tidbcloud_serverless_cluster.new_cluster ${id}  # Serverless
terraform import tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster.new_cluster ${id}   # Dedicated
```

> If the import succeeds, you'll see a confirmation message like this:

Reviewer 2: 我理解 import 只是 import 了 state，那么 configuration 怎么写呢？
如果没有 configuration，下次 apply 会发生什么？

---
title: Migrate Cluster Resource to Serverless/Dedicated Cluster Resource
summary: Learn how to migrate cluster resource to serverless/dedicated cluster resource.
---

> # Migrate Cluster Resource to Serverless/Dedicated Cluster Resource

Reviewer 3: ref: https://developers.google.cn/style/slashes

## Step 1. Select the `tidbcloud_cluster` resource to migrate

Use the command below to list all the `tidbcloud_cluster` resources.

```shell
terraform state list | grep "tidbcloud_cluster"
```

Select the cluster resource to migrate and execute the command below to get the cluster `id` for later use.

```shell
terraform state show ${your_target_cluster_resource} | grep ' id '
```

## Step 2. Delete the existed resource from state

Run the `terraform state rm ${your_target_cluster_resource}` command to delete the target cluster resource from the state.

## Step 3. Delete the configuration of your target resource

Find the configuration of your target cluster resource in the tf file and delete the related code.

## Step 4. Add the import block for your new serverless/dedicated cluster resource

Add the import block for your new serverless or dedicated cluster resource in the tf file as shown below, replacing ${id} with the previously recorded cluster ID:
```
# Serverless
import {
  to = tidbcloud_serverless_cluster.example
  id = "${id}"
}  
# Dedicated
import {
  to = tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster.example
  id = "${id}"
}  

> ```

Author: select should be identify after commit the suggestions

> ```

Reviewer 3: Done.

## Step 5. Plan and generate configuration for the target cluster

Run the following command to generate the configuration for the target cluster. Do not supply a path to an existing file, or Terraform throws an error.
```shell
terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated.tf
```

## Step 6. Review generated configuration and apply

Review the generated configuration file to ensure it meets your requirements. You may also move the contents of this file to your desired location.

Run `terraform apply` to import your infrastructure. After applying, the console will show the message like:
```shell
tidbcloud_serverless_cluster.example: Importing... 
tidbcloud_serverless_cluster.example: Import complete 

Apply complete! Resources: 1 imported, 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

## Next step

> Next, you can start managing a cluster with the [serverless cluster resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform-use-serverless-cluster-resource.md) or [dedicated cluster resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform-use-dedicated-cluster-resource.md).

Author: yes, we're going to publish migrate doc first

> Next, you can start managing a cluster with the [serverless cluster resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform-use-serverless-cluster-resource.md) or [dedicated cluster resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform-use-dedicated-cluster-resource.md).

Reviewer 3: In that case, we would need to remove the "## Next step" section from this PR to avoid the broken links of the two new docs.

> Next, you can start managing a cluster with the [serverless cluster resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform-use-serverless-cluster-resource.md) or [dedicated cluster resource](/tidb-cloud/terraform-use-dedicated-cluster-resource.md).

Author: get, removed

---
title: Migrate Cluster Resource to Serverless or Dedicated Cluster Resource
summary: Learn how to migrate a cluster resource to a serverless or dedicated cluster resource.
---

# Migrate Cluster Resource to Serverless or Dedicated Cluster Resource

Starting from TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider v0.4.0, the `tidbcloud_cluster` resource is replaced by two new resources: `tidbcloud_serverless_cluster` and `tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster`. If you are using TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider v0.4.0 or a later version, you can follow this document to migrate your `tidbcloud_cluster` resource to the `tidbcloud_serverless_cluster` or `tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster` resource. 

> For more information, see [Generating configuration](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/import/generating-configuration) in Terraform documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Tip:**
>
> The steps in this document use the configuration generation feature of Terraform to simplify the migration process by automatically recreating the `.tf` configuration for your cluster resource. To learn more about it, see [Generating configuration](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/import/generating-configuration) in Terraform documentation.
```

    ```
    # Serverless
    import {
      to = tidbcloud_serverless_cluster.example
      id = "${id}"
    }
    ```

- If your target cluster is TiDB Cloud Dedicated, add the following import block to your `.tf` file, replace `example` with a desired resource name, and replace `${id}` with the cluster ID you get from [Step 1](#step-1-identify-the-tidbcloud_cluster-resource-to-migrate):

    ```
    # Dedicated
    import {
      to = tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster.example
      id = "${id}"
    }
    ```

## Step 5. Generate the new configuration file for the target cluster resource

Generate the new configuration file for the target cluster resource according to the import block:

```shell
terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated.tf
```

Do not specify an existing `.tf` file name in the preceding command. Otherwise, Terraform will return an error.

## Step 6. Review and apply the generated configuration

Review the generated configuration file to ensure it meets your needs. Optionally, you can move the contents of this file to your preferred location.

> Then, run `terraform apply` to import your infrastructure. After applying, the example output is as follows: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, run `terraform apply` to import your infrastructure. After applying, the example output is as follows: 

```

---
title: Migrate Cluster Resource to Serverless or Dedicated Cluster Resource
summary: Learn how to migrate a cluster resource to a serverless or dedicated cluster resource.
---

# Migrate Cluster Resource to Serverless or Dedicated Cluster Resource

Starting from TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider v0.4.0, the `tidbcloud_cluster` resource is replaced by two new resources: `tidbcloud_serverless_cluster` and `tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster`. If you are using TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider v0.4.0 or a later version, you can follow this document to migrate your `tidbcloud_cluster` resource to the `tidbcloud_serverless_cluster` or `tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster` resource. 

> **Tip:**
>
> The steps in this document use the configuration generation feature of Terraform to simplify the migration process by automatically recreating the `.tf` configuration for your cluster resource. To learn more about it, see [Generating configuration](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/import/generating-configuration) in Terraform documentation.

## Prerequisites

> - [Upgrade to TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider v0.4.0 or later](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Upgrade to [TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider v0.4.0 or later](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest)
```

## Step 1. Identify the `tidbcloud_cluster` resource to migrate

1. List all `tidbcloud_cluster` resources:

    ```shell
    terraform state list | grep "tidbcloud_cluster"
    ```

2. Choose a target cluster resource to migrate and get its cluster `id` for later use:

    ```shell
    terraform state show ${your_target_cluster_resource} | grep ' id '
    ```

## Step 2. Remove the existing resource from the Terraform state

Remove your target cluster resource from the Terraform state:

```shell
terraform state rm ${your_target_cluster_resource}
```

## Step 3. Delete the configuration of your target cluster resource

In your `.tf` file, find the configuration of your target cluster resource and delete the corresponding code.

## Step 4. Add an import block for the new serverless or dedicated cluster resource

> - If your target cluster is TiDB Cloud Severless, add the following import block to your `.tf` file, replace `example` with a desired resource name, and replace `${id}` with the cluster ID you get from [Step 1](#step-1-identify-the-tidbcloud_cluster-resource-to-migrate):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If your target cluster is TiDB Cloud Serverless, add the following import block to your `.tf` file, replace `example` with a desired resource name, and replace `${id}` with the cluster ID you get from [Step 1](#step-1-identify-the-tidbcloud_cluster-resource-to-migrate):
```

    ```

>     # Serverless

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # TiDB Cloud Serverless
```

    import {
      to = tidbcloud_serverless_cluster.example
      id = "${id}"
    }
    ```

- If your target cluster is TiDB Cloud Dedicated, add the following import block to your `.tf` file, replace `example` with a desired resource name, and replace `${id}` with the cluster ID you get from [Step 1](#step-1-identify-the-tidbcloud_cluster-resource-to-migrate):

    ```

>     # Dedicated

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    # TiDB Cloud Dedicated
```

    import {
      to = tidbcloud_dedicated_cluster.example
      id = "${id}"
    }
    ```

> ## Step 5. Generate the new configuration file for the target cluster resource
> 
> Generate the new configuration file for the target cluster resource according to the import block:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Step 5. Generate the new configuration file

Generate the new configuration file for the new serverless or dedicated cluster resource:
```
